## What do Sokkel do?

Sokkel connects product work to live deployments for cross-functional teams. 

We let teams focus on building great products; build features, ship them,
track them through to users. Every change (work item) gets connected to what
actually reaches production, so there's no more guessing if that critical
update is deployed or wondering what broke between releases.

Sokkel handles the deployment complexity while creating a unified changelog
that gives your entire team clarity on what's shipping and when. Product
managers can track feature rollouts, designers can see their work go live, and
engineers can focus on solving problems rather than managing infrastructure.
Teams get faster iteration cycles, reduced deployment risk, built-in audit
trails for compliance, and the confidence that comes from knowing exactly
what's running for users.

## Who is Sokkel for?

Sokkel is built for cross-functional product teams who believe in true
collaboration and empowerment but are held back by deployment friction and
fragmented communication around software delivery. This includes product
managers who need to ensure business viability, designers focused on user
experience, and engineers who want to contribute beyond just feasibility.

All working together on teams that are measured by outcomes, not output.
These teams desperately need infrastructure tooling that matches their
collaborative workflow, unifies their context through accessible language,
and eliminates the silos hat prevent them from rapidly iterating and delivering
value to customers.

## What are the pain points?

The context of software delivery is fragmented across tools that don't speak to
the whole team. Changes get lost between pull requests, deployment logs, and
project management systems. Teams end up guessing what's running in production,
when things broke, and whether their latest iteration actually made it to
customers.

Deploying software is inherently complex, but the tools available today are
made for cloud engineers, not cross-functional teams. They require deep
technical knowledge, create silos between roles, and don't provide the
visibility needed to understand the impact of changes.

Compliance and audit trails requirements create additional friction that slows
teams down. Tracking what changed, when, who approved it, and what the business
impact was requires manual documentation across multiple systems. Teams either
sacrifice speed to maintain audit trails, or move fast and scramble to
reconstruct change history when auditors come calling. 

## Why do our customers care about this problem?

Because they want to scale with confidence. They want to ship features, track
them through to users, so they can ensure they make the impact they intended.

Infrastructure directly impacts their bottom line and business viability. 80%
of incidents are caused by _changes_, which means lost revenue, it destroys
customer trust and compliance failures can lead to substantial fines.

Hiring engineering talent to maintain complex infrastructure is expensive and
would deliver more value working on their core product. Hiring product managers
that can translate cloud complexity into business value is even harder.
