---
layout: ../../layouts/ArticleLayout.astro
---
# Building great products should be simple.

A product manager asks: "Are we shipping Friday?" The engineer answers: "Should
be good." Meeting done in ninety seconds.

"Hey, just checking—are we still on track for Friday?", and the engineer
replies "Yeah, should be good. Just working through some edge cases.". Meeting
done in ninety seconds. Efficient, right?

Here's what actually happened: The product manager had just gotten a Slack
message from the CEO asking when the feature would ship. They needed a real
answer but didn't want to sound like they were micromanaging. The engineer was
definitely not on Slack, they'd discovered the feature required changes to
three other systems, but didn't want to sound like they were making excuses or
couldn't estimate properly.

The product manager needs to understand: What's blocking this? What
dependencies exist? What changed since yesterday? The engineer knows all
this—it's in their head, scattered across GitHub PRs, Jira tickets, Slack
threads, and mental models of how the applications connect. But there's no
shared space. No single source of truth that both people can point to and say,
"Here's what's actually happening."

AI amplifies individual effectiveness and code quality when tools are connected
to internal company information, such as source code, documentation, work
tracking, communications tools. Not because AI is magic, but because context
and knowledge sharing is everything[^1].

Sokkel makes software development understandable to everyone who needs to
understand it. Instead of treating "applications" and "changes" as technical
concepts that live in engineering tools, Sokkels makes them accessible so the
whole team can see and understand. An applications isn't just a codebase, it's
a map of dependencies, integrations and data flows. A changes isn't just a
commit, it's the connection between a user need, a business initiative, and
what actually shipped.

Teams who can visualise and understand how work actually flows, turns AI
adoption into organisational performance gains. Without shared understanding,
AI creates fast chaos [^1]. With chaos, teams spend more time in unscheduled
meetings [^2]

Making the system legible doesn't eliminate complexity, but it changes the
nature of the conversation. Instead of "are we still on track for Friday?"
followed by "yeah, should be good,", you can have: "I see the payment reminder
system is done, but the accounting integration is blocked. Do we ship without
that integration or wait?"

It's time.

[^1]: State of AI-assisted Software Development, Dora, 2025 and
    Cross-functional team dynamics in technology management: a comprehensive
review of efficiency and innovation enhancement, 2024, Rita Uchenna Attah et
al.

[^2]: Understanding coordination in global software engineering: A
    mixed-methods study on the use of meetings and Slack, 2025, Viktoria Stray
et. al
