---
layout: ../../layouts/TermsLayout.astro
---
# SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENT (SLA)

The Service is provided "as is" as standardized service; the right to use is
not conditional or tied to a specific version or functionality at a certain
time, but allows access to and use of the Service as is at all times.

Sokkel reserves the right to make improvements, add, modify or remove
functionality, or correct any errors or defects in the Service at its sole
discretion, without any obligation or liability resulting from such act or
defects. Sokkel will however not remove functionality which in Sokkel's
reasonable opinion must be considered as core functionalities for a service
such as the Service.

Sokkel and the Customer agree that the Service will not always be completely
free of errors and that the improvement of the Service is a continuous process.
The Customer is also aware that successful use of the Service is dependent on
equipment and factors (such as sufficient internet connection) that the
Customer has the responsibility for. Sokkel is not liable for the
discontinuance or disruption of the operation of the Service caused by the
Internet or any third party service the Customer needs in order to access the
Service, including operating systems etc.

Third party software and operating system updates etc. may influence the
usability of the Service, and Sokkel has no responsibility in this regard.

Sokkel will however always use best efforts to accommodate and develop the
Service for updates etc. on supported operating systems.

Sokkel is only responsible for the functioning of the Service as such, and
undertakes the following obligations regarding error handling with regards to
the Service:

- Sokkel will provide support to the Customer during normal business hours
(0900-1700 CET, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in Norway) via
email and chat.
- Sokkel will use reasonable efforts to correct errors in the Service as soon
as possible, in accordance with the error categories and repair times set out
below.

Error categories and repair times:

- Critial (A): All or material parts of the Service are unavailable and
critical business functions cannot be performed. Repair time: One (1) business day.
- Serious (B): The Service is able to perform standard functions, but the
Service performance or functionality is severely degraded or limited. Repair
time: Three (3) business days.
- Less serious (C): Non-critical functions do not work and this has little or
no business impact. Repair time: Continuously.

The repair time stated in the table above starts when the Customer has given
Sokkel notice of the error and sufficient information to assess and understand
what the error comprises. Notice shall be given by written e-mail to
support@Sokkel.com or via Sokkels’s online chat channel, available both within
the Service and on sokkel.io.

If Sokkel has not succeeded in curing a category A or B error within the
repair time stated, the Customer is entitled to a period of free extension of
the service, and must claim such free extensions within 90 days after the error
notification was sent to Sokkel. The free extension for failing to meet the
repair time for category A errors shall be 14 days. For category B errors the
free extension shall be 4 days. For category C errors no free extension is
given. Total free extension periods per year is limited to 28 days. The above
described free extensions shall be the only claim the Customer may be entitled
to in case of failure to meet the repair times stated above.

A category A error lasting more than 10 days is considered a material breach.
The same applies for a category B error lasting more than 20 days.

Planned downtime is not considered an error. Downtime may be necessary to
perform updates or maintenance in hardware or software from time to time.
Sokkel may have planned downtime up to 10 times each calendar year. Planned
downtime shall always be notified at least five (5) business days in advance
and shall be done outside of normal business hours (0900-1700 CET) if possible.
For planned downtime of up to 24 hours, notification shall be given at least
ten (10) days’ in advance. Planned downtime according to this clause is not
considered as a breach of contract.

Sokkel may use sub-contractors to provide the Service including all support
and maintenance. To the extent a subcontractor processes personal data for
which the Customer is a data controller, the Data Processing Agreement sets out
requirements in this regard.

Sokkel shall provide backup of the Customer’s data, to restore it after a data
loss event.

For support purposes, Sokkel has internal administrators who can access
Customers’ data. Sokkel will never access Customers’ data without prior
approval from the Customer. Logs are kept of any access by Sokkel
administrators.
